doc/dev/BUILD_WASM.md, before:

# Introduction

F3D can be built in WebAssembly using emscripten in order to embed it into a web browser.
It is still experimental and only a small fraction of the libf3d public API is bound.
An example can be seen at https://f3d.app/web

This guide is describing how to build VTK and F3D with emscripten using Docker on Linux or Windows.

# Building

While it's possible to setup an emscripten cross-compiling toolchain locally, it's easier to use Docker and the provided npm scripts.

## Preparing the build

Install `Docker` and `npm` locally.

## Building F3D

Go to the `webassembly` directory and run the following command to build F3D:

```sh
npm run build:deb # or build:rel for optimized build
```

On completion, a directory `webassembly/dist` is created containing the artifacts.

# Testing it locally

Five different files should be located in `webassembly/dist` directory:

- `f3d.js`: javascript library
- `f3d.wasm`: webassembly binaries
- `f3d.data`: virtual filesystem containing the file specified in `F3D_WASM_DATA_FILE`
- `index.html`: example file setting up the web page
- `favicon.ico`: icon used to display the logo in the browser tab

Again, use a npm command to test locally by running a HTTP server:

```sh
npm run serve
```

Going to http://localhost:3000 should display the web page and load F3D web app.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ dh-you/f3d@ed2de5de4559067fa6188dd60685db547d9f48f2 🚀

doc/dev/BUILD_WASM.md, after:

# Introduction

F3D can be built in WebAssembly using emscripten in order to embed it into a web browser.
It is still experimental and only a small fraction of the libf3d public API is bound (see `../LANGUAGE_BINDINGS.md`).
An example can be seen live at https://f3d.app/web, and a code example is available in `example/libf3d/web`.

This guide is describing how to build VTK and F3D with emscripten using Docker on Linux or Windows.

# Building

While it's possible to setup an emscripten cross-compiling toolchain locally, it's easier to use Docker and the provided npm scripts.

## Preparing the build

Install `Docker` and `npm` locally.

## Building F3D

From the root of the repository run the following command:

```sh
npm run build
```

By default, the latest Docker image is pulled automatically, but you can force a specific Docker image by setting the environment variable `F3D_DOCKER_TIMESTAMP` to a timestamp (see `.github/workflows/versions.json` file)
It's also possible to use `podman` instead of `docker`, please set the `F3D_DOCKER_CLIENT` environment variable to `podman`.
On completion, a directory `dist` is created containing the artifacts (`f3d.js` and `f3d.wasm`).
`assimp`, `occt` and `draco` plugins are automatically included.

# Run tests

From the root of the repository, after the build step, run the following command:

```sh
npm test
```

# Integrating

It's possible to generate a local package to use in other javascript projects.
Run the following command:

```sh
npm pack
```

It will build and generate a `f3d-vX.X.X.tgz` file.
This file can be imported into your project:

```sh
npm install f3d-vX.X.X.tgz
```
